THE NATIONAL HIGHWAYS SAFETY ORDINANCE, 2000
Ordinance No. XL of 2000
An Ordinance to provide for safe driving on National Highways

1. Short title, extent and commencement.
(1) This Ordinance may be called the National Highways Safety Ordinance, 2000.
(2) It extends to the whole of Pakistan.
(3) It shall come into force at once.

Section 2. Definitions.
(1) In this Ordinance, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,-
(a) "National Highway" means a national highway as defined in the National Highway Authority Act, 1991.
(b) "Patrol Post" means a post established by the National Highways and Motorway Police.

Section 10. Driving without a valid driving license.
Whoever drives a motor vehicle on a National Highway without a valid driving license shall be punishable with a fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or with both.

Section 11. Over-speeding.
Whoever drives a motor vehicle on a National Highway at a speed exceeding the maximum speed limit prescribed for such vehicle shall be punished with a fine which may extend to two thousand rupees. In case of a second or subsequent offense, the fine may extend to five thousand rupees, and the driving license of the offender may be suspended for a period not exceeding three months.

Section 12. Reckless and negligent driving.
Whoever drives a motor vehicle on a National Highway in a reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger human life or property shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or with both. 

Section 15. Driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
Whoever drives or attempts to drive a motor vehicle on a National Highway while under the influence of alcohol or a drug to such an extent as to be incapable of exercising proper control over the vehicle, shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to twenty thousand rupees, or with both.

Section 20. Disobeying traffic signals.
Any driver who fails to stop at a red traffic signal or disobeys the directions given by a police officer in uniform shall be punished with a fine of one thousand rupees.

Section 45. Power to impound vehicles.
A police officer in uniform not below the rank of a sub-inspector may impound a motor vehicle if he has reason to believe that the vehicle is being driven without a valid registration certificate, or if it is involved in a fatal accident.
